this video is brought to you by
Lilo I want to be absolutely clear
upfront so that you can be very assured
where my intentions are going forward I
do not dislike any of the media that
we're talking about in this video in
fact I loved most of it on the page and
the screen I'm not coming for any of the
creators this time but we do need to
talk about this because there is clearly
an issue here and it's becoming a
problem but the issue doesn't really
have a clear Target to blame
so let's hit the ground running and talk
about red white and royal blue the
recently released movie based on the
book by Casey mcquiston in the heart of
the city of London The Majestic Wedding
Bells Echo announcing the matrimony of
Prince Phillip the eldest grandson of
England's Monarch the historic streets
lined with iconic landmarks Buzz with
anticipation and excitement among the
swirl of dignitaries and celebrities is
an individual who attracts attention
like a moth to a flame Alex Claremont d
as he isn't just any attendee he's the
dynamic son of Ellen Claremont a
Trailblazer who shattered glass ceilings
by becoming the first woman to become
the president of the United States
however this evening amidst the
sparkling chandeliers of the Grand
Ballroom something is a miss the air
thickens with tension and hush Whispers
Traverse the room at the heart of these
murmurs are Alex and Prince Henry the
younger sibling of the groom their
contentious relationship is the stuff of
social media Legend the simmering
animosity between them reaches its
Crescendo when a relatively minor
misunderstanding leads to them swimming
and wedding cake providing juicy content
for the eager tabloids on both sides of
the pond the repercussions are immediate
with the impending reelection campaign
of President Claremont the Scandal is
ill timed threatening to put a dent in
her electoral armor damage control is of
the essence to smooth out ruffled
feathers and plate the media's appetite
for Scandal Alex and Henry are thrust
into a meticulously orchestrated PR
campaign
this facade aimed at showcasing their
renewed friendship has them attending
events posing for pictures and offering
sound bites about their brotherly Bond
what three words would I use to describe
Henry white blonde and British during
one such contrived rendevu after a
security breach lands them both locked
in a cramped broom closet Alex's guard
crumbles he divulges the root of his
resentment stemming from a slate he felt
from Henry during one of his initial
forays in to the international stage
this heartfelt confession laced with
vulnerability moves Henry recognizing
the weight of the misunderstanding he
extends a genuine gesture of
reconciliation late night texts replace
tur exchanges humor replaces hostility
and slowly they start to build a bond
peppered with light-hearted Jabs and
shared inside jokes however
relationships are rarely linear at the
extravagant New Year celebration hosted
by Alex emotions bubble to the surface
when the clock strikes midnight a
buoyant Alex loses es himself in the
festivities this does not sit well with
the Prince Henry's sudden and
unexplained departure hints at unspoken
sentiments driven by an overwhelming
fear of maybe losing Henry Alex seeks
him out in the Serene White House
Gardens confusion leads to a kiss from
the prince who like any man then spends
the next several weeks ignoring Alex's
texts and phone calls a normal gay
experience yes weeks later at a
presidential dinner Alex reunites with
Henry and the pair end up hooking up the
ha enter into a Friends with Benefits
relationship although they keep their
involvement secret Duty and
responsibilities however have their own
demands the Electoral Battlefield
beckons and Alex finds himself in Texas
championing his mother's campaign
because this is a romantic fantasy the
idea of Texas voting for a Democratic
president is actually possible he later
travels to Brooklyn to speak at the
Democratic National Convention where
Henry unexpectedly visits him this leads
to these friends with benefits becoming
something closer than just friends Alex
even comes out to his mother as bisexual
she's very supportive maybe even too
supportive when she starts recommending
that he go on prep but advises him to
think about his relationship carefully a
public relationship between the first
son and the prince of England could
change their lives forever their story
however is far from a fairy tale ending
Henry visits Alex at the scen at
Claremont Vacation House near Austin
Texas out on the lake just when Alex is
on the cusp of sharing his deepest
feelings with Henry the panicked Prince
throws himself into the lake and soon
leaves escaping to England but love with
its tenacity Spurs Alex on he pursues
Henry across the ocean seeking answers
drenched from the English rain Alex
demands to know why Henry has basically
abandoned him Henry admits that he loves
Alex just as Alex loves him but explains
that his Royal position makes a gay
relationship impossible for him but Alex
with those eyelashes of his manages to
convince Henry that their relationship
is worth fighting for and the to
reconcile and commit to being together
yet Destiny has more challenges waiting
in the wings their intimate emails and
texts a window to their evolving Love
Story are maliciously exposed by a
spurned x of Alex's creating a media
Maelstrom Alex uses this as an
opportunity to come out publicly and own
his sexuality and his love for Henry
giving a moving speech that makes him
the figurehead for queer America but
things don't go so well for Henry whose
family has all but sequestered him away
from the public at large but thanks to
some deaf maneuvering on the part of
allies on both sides Alex and Henry
reunite in London and prepare to
confront the king of England about Henry
being allowed to be his own man a tur
confrontation follows but is interrupted
by the sounds in the streets the public
have come to support Henry despite what
his family may want and going against
the wishes of the crown Henry chooses
Alex the climax of the story coincides
with the US elections polls are tight
and Alex's family is preparing for bad
news the only thing keeping Alex
together is is Henry by his side as his
mother prepares a concession speech news
comes from Texas in the most fairy tale
moments since Cinderella's fairy
godmother turned a pumpkin into a
carriage Texas goes blue securing a
second term for president Claremont
Alex's tireless efforts combined with
Henry's unwavering support Mark a dual
Victory one political and one personal
the movie ends as they celebrate away
from the media glare in the Tranquil
surroundings of Alex's childhood home in
Austin
so red white and royal blue might read
like The Ultimate what if scenario but
strip away the international diplomacy
and Royal trappings and you got yourself
a pretty straightforward romance two
guys falling for each other when they
least expect it groundbreaking now if
you're familiar with the romance genre
you'll know that it's not exactly
bursting at the seams with gay love
stories that don't take a tragic turn
and mainstream romcoms well they've
historically stuck to the script of
snowflakes and sanitized kisses with the
steamier stuff being left implied if
it's acknowledged at all explicitly
sexual gay romcoms are like unicorns
mythically rare and to some potentially
unsettling in this narrative Alex and
Henry's all-consuming infatuation
anchors the plot they're the kind of
into to deep that has them gambling
everything on a chance at happiness and
sure with Alex's mom in full campaign
mode and Henry sporting a crown usually
metaphorically their romance isn't
exactly public friendly but the
fireworks happen offstage their text
messages a master class in building
sexual tension and their together
moments well let's just say they're
explosive in the clutch of pearls kind
of way especially in the book they make
up for lost time as it were the story
kind of saunters into this linal space
it's not pure handholding puppy love
like in heartstopper but it's also not
quite at the level of pay-per-view
eroticism that you'd find an elite it's
sweet sure endearing even to the most
cynical of us but it also packs enough
Heat to make you want to crack open a
window my full name is Henry George
Edward James Hanover Stewart
foog and I thought Alexander Gabriel
Claremont Diaz was a
mouthful he
is and yet got some heat of the not so
great kind uh we're talking about think
pieces from places like The Huffington
Post and the BBC getting their knickers
in a Twist over the movie's excessive
sexiness The
Twist some of these nay ERS were gay men
it's a bit of a the call is coming from
inside of the house moment when queer
people themselves openly admit to being
comfortable watching straight sex in
movies but are turned away by the sight
of boys kissing especially due to how
relatively tame red white and Royal
Blue's sex was compared to other gay
media released in recent memory the bulk
of criticism however was found on social
media where straight people seemed to be
confused and shocked that gay men had
sex at all the references and
the one particular sex scene which
seemed like a Rubik's Cube to some
straight viewers were too much for an
audience that had been raised on the
sexist gay best friend sidekick
character it's almost as if someone
asked do gay characters have sexual
encounters how do they do this when
they're both facing each other what kind
of Witchcraft is this as a result they
rush to the internet first to
investigate how the missionary position
could possibly work with gays and then
to express their dissatisfaction with
the situation there's a strong
undercurrent of hypocracy here
particularly as queer folk of literally
every shade of the rainbow are accused
of corrupting the youth never mind that
it was perfectly acceptable for
virtually every American Teen Movie to
focus with laser Precision on rooting
for teenagers to Bone each other the
American Pi franchise owes its whole
success to this for which audiences
agree that the heterosexual events in
American Pi
are normal but when it's gay it's
sexualization echoing a sentiment
quietly expressed in culture straight is
normal and everything else that is
outside of normal must be scrutinized
for how it may corrupt the normal which
is the most irrational thought process
presented in this essay and I will note
just in casee YouTube makes me cut the
footage of said scene the main sex scene
in red white and royal blue entirely
focuses on faces it's all about the
emotional intimacy between two people
and less about the raw sex which isn't
even raw by the way because they make a
point of using a condom which a lot of
gay viewers laughed at because we're in
the age of prep but two things one
Prince Henry probably couldn't go on
prep without it causing a scandal and
two there are STDs other than HIV guys
this is why syphilis is resurging and
why we're getting antibiotic resistant
strains of Gonorrhea now wrap it up in
any case according to what I've gathered
the majority of viewers who were
offended were heterosexual women who
were apparently exposed to gay content
for the first time in their lives fora
heartstopper which huge props to
heartstopper by the way for opening
people's minds to the concept that boy
kissing is all right but when that's
their only exposure I can understand how
legs up anal penetration may leave them
surprised however they were so taken
back that they criticized the film for
having an excessive amount of sexual
content which once more is one scene and
in both a physical and figurative sense
it's not quite as steamy as the sex
scene that took place between Rose and
Jack and the car in Titanic they were
shut down online pretty quickly by a
huge swath of fans made up mostly of
women but to my delightful surprise a
lot of gay men as well who told them to
pipe down and accept that sex exists
thank you but for a few days this very
very vocal minority were making it seem
like Alex and Henry having sex in the
most basic position known to humankind
while using a condom and even to my
recollection being under the bed sheets
was compared on a onetoone basis as the
third day of a meth orgy so why is it
that they were perfectly fine with Nick
and Charlie kissing up a storm on
heartstopper writing fanfiction about it
and creating countless fan edits on Tik
Tok but basically formed a covenant the
minute Al pushed Henry's knees up to his
chest I'd like to see their reaction to
well any episode of que's folk now is
this just because they've never been
exposed to the idea of gay sex before
were they homophobic were they secret
prageru plants out to kill the movie
were they sex negative in general or
have we as a society simply conditioned
a large swath of the populace to think
of gays as completely nonsexual objects
something that plenty of people like
having around but keep it a distance
just far enough away to not have to know
too much about it they know that men
have sex with men and women have sex
with women but they're really icked out
by the idea of knowing the ins and outs
and tops and bottoms of it all good
thing Henry didn't eat any beans before
the scene or that could have brought up
even more uncomfortable questions the
controversy about the sex in red white
and royal blue while quickly suppressed
seems to paint an ill- fated Omen about
the condition of gay men and possibly by
extension all of queerness and the
ability to be open about sex lives
especially in the same comfort that
straight creators depict straight sex
through a latent process of judging
gayness in media the straight audience
can pass a stamp of approval or condemn
certain media and in the process we can
perhaps perceive the hetero hegemony as
dictating how or how not to be gay and
simply by how overwhelmingly large the
straight audience is their dictation of
what good gay representation is drowns
out what gay men describe as good gay
representation this is the fear anyway
and though I believe it is irrational
the fear comes from a very real very
valid place especially as a conservative
wave once again washes Across America
and sections of Europe which tries to
insist that queer sex should be pushed
back into the closet or should simply
cease to exist altogether which is how
they also feel about various queer
people political gay fears seem to be
realized through the mass audience's
reaction to gay characters in media in
conjunction with criticisms against
relatively tame gay sex in one movie the
celebration of sexless queer characters
in another piece of queer media seems to
Echo a 1950s abstinence mandate that
says to Modern young queer people you'll
be accepted if you're less like the
characters in red white and royal blue
and more like the characters in
heartstopper
let's take a closer look at heartstopper
for a moment this series skips the usual
over-the-top drama and instead captures
the sweet sometimes clumsy moments of
teen love it centers around two
characters Charlie spring played by Joe
lock and Nick Nelson played by Kid
Connor their story takes place in a
typical English high school and unfolds
slowly and gently with each episode
moving the story forward toward a
satisfying emotional climax the story
carefully takes us through their
personal Journeys the difficulties they
face with bullying and the joy of
finding someone who truly understands
them all without becoming overly sad or
dramatic the show has a light touch that
perfectly captures how Straits have been
telling us first love feels for
centuries the show gives us a real look
at Charlie as he deals with his
sexuality and the need to be accepted
he's not just a stereotype he's a fully
developed character going through the
ups and downs of first love in a very
real way as for Nick the show does a
good job of showing his journey of
understanding that he's bisexual it
talks about the confusion and moments of
clarity that come with figuring out who
you are the series handles these complex
topics with a gentle touch that's both
admirable and sweet heartstopper also
shows the diverse experience of
different people in the queer Community
each character has a different story
reminding us that everyone's journey is
unique but there's still a common hope
and strength that they all share the
show is also notable or maybe notorious
for not focusing too much on the sexual
aspect aspects of Nick and Charlie's
relationship this makes heartstopper a
strong argument against the idea that
gay stories are inherently too focused
on sex and therefore unsafe for kids or
young people to watch but while creating
a story focused on the sweet and cute
over the hot and bothered has attracted
an audience that might not usually watch
a show about queer characters it's also
seemed to alienate a large swath of the
queer Community there's been a rather
weird reaction to the second season of
the show in particular for instance
Queens Trixie and katata have a YouTube
series where they review Netflix shows
and movies called Queens who like to
watch when they reviewed the first
season among High fan demand and even
higher personal hesitation it seemed the
only point of contention was that Trixie
seemed to be irritated by the cute
depiction of gay people that can often
have us feeling exploited and patronized
while katata liked how cute it was fast
forward to season 2 and even katata was
over the cuteness and wanted to see
something a bit more grown up or at
least see the character's relationships
Advance Beyond hugging even if it was
offc screen the first season was cute
but ask anyone who's been married for
more than 10 years those cute things
about your significant others start to
get annoying real quick cute wasn't
cutting it anymore gay people were cute
when I was growing up in the same way
that a Geral or a guinea pig would be
cute caged fonded over taken out to play
with but ignored when no longer novel
and at the time probably dead within 2
years it felt patronizing to be reduced
to this we were either neutered and cute
such as in teen focused TV shows or
sexually active and eventually dead such
as in movies like Brokeback Mountain
tell me the puritanical moralization of
sexual values doesn't exist anymore many
creators lean toward this over the years
as a way to show gay representation
without pissing off the Straits too much
so I can understand why some people in
the gay community especially men my age
who grew up with the Trope of the sexist
gay best friend like Trixie would be
irritated by it even now when there is
pretty mainstream gay movies and shows
that do show the sex stuff like young
Royals and Elite but like I said ki's
opinions seem to shift between the two
seasons our Queens who watch looked at
this story about a collection of various
queer 15 and 16year olds and they spent
the duration of their video railing it
because well nobody was getting railed
at a context I found this reaction a
little bit cringy and truthfully the
only time I really saw Trixie and caught
him miss a Mark heartstopper isn't a
show about sex so why should it be all
about sex they didn't want to see the
characters having sex they just wanted
to know that it was happening or
building up to happening because that
seemed more realistic to them and their
experiences to be clear gay people do
not want to see these characters having
sex but gay people do want to know that
gay sexuality is allowed to exist media
that divorces sexuality from identity is
to some annoying at best and triggering
at worst not to paint Trixie and katcha
in a bad light they're hardly alone in
fact they're not even the first to have
this reaction there was a slew of gay
men and queer people in general who held
nothing but contempt for heartstopper
from the word go and not even
necessarily for the aforementioned
reasons there were many who felt that
heartstopper was simply too edgeless and
seem to be presenting a purity mandate
projected at the entire queer Community
not unlike the messaging projected at
women in
general there is a trend among discourse
among women women about the allotted
role of a woman in the patriarchal power
structure men typically want women to be
sexually experienced but they also seem
to allocate a role for women that holds
them to a particular sexual Purity it's
a double standard for sure you have to
be a boss but you can't be mean you have
to lead but you can't squash other
people's ideas you're supposed to love
being a mother but don't talk about your
kids all the damn time the Madonna wh
complex exists for a reason you marry
the nice girl not the one who give you a
in a movie theater this bothered
elennis morset so severely that she made
one of the greatest songs of all time
because of it suffice to say women have
made it clear that they don't like
having the parameters of their sexual
qualifications gauged by a group outside
of women and I get it that's fing
annoying because on top of doing what
you want to do there is a looming social
decorum of what Society not only expects
you to do but will penalize you for not
doing all the while on the example of
sexuality there are other groups of
people who can do all the kinds of
sexuality things that they want without
any kind of repercussion heartstopper
seems to trigger these fears for some
gay men there is a perception that the
show is presenting an argument that the
typical normal healthy gay teenage
relationship should only be as physical
as hugging and a couple of kisses for
which this is compounded through several
other high-profile instances of gay
media specifically one which made waves
in 2018 but that I will not explicitly
mention for reasons if you know you know
even though I
highly doubt that developing a normative
argument that gay men need to hold
themselves to a willful self-directed
abstinence program to be considered
valid by Society at large was Alice
osman's objective to be clear I do not
under any circumstances believe that
Alice Osman is trying to reaet queer
sexuality sex is omitted from their work
as per their license as a Creator but
they do not shame sex in their work
outside of Oman there is a fear of an
external dictating what is and is not
acceptable sexual behavior among queer
people this fear wouldn't be valid were
it not for a small army of people who
are currently trying to insist that any
queer visibility exists to indoctrinate
and corrupt the youth of today media
that so much as slightely leans towards
that sentiment even if only perceived
triggers this whole Cascade of hasty
generalizations in our post Disney
acquisition of Star Wars World we've
started to conflate the creation Creator
and attitudes of a fandom we cross those
three wires a lot and we perceive that
the way a fandom is interacting with a
particular example of media as being the
intended meaning of said Media or even
the values of the Creator themselves
take for instance the recent event of
Zack Snyder hiring a transgender writer
to write the prequel comic book for his
upcoming movie Rebel Moon a portion of
his fan base made up of red pill
basement dwellers were horrified to
learn that he in fact isn't a horrible
person like them these are also the
people who think homelander is the good
guy so just because there are some
people holding up Nick and Charlie as
the archetype of how gay boys ought to
express their affection does not mean
that this is what the media is intending
my willingness to afford the benefit of
the doubt to a large swath of gays
including Trixie and Kata is that they
don't want to directly observe the sex
lives of these characters but rather
comes from an annoyance for a condition
of gay acceptance being to follow not
only the Purity standards of straight
people but specifically the Purity
standards that are imposed on straight
women this may even betray a thought
pattern in society even from our allies
that indicates that Society at large
still does not view gay men as actual
men external factions that dictate what
our sex lives ought to be are based on
the model of what straight people deem
to be acceptable when in reality queer
psychosexual development happens quite
differently especially in adolescence
during a formative age of communication
skills gender is a cultural barrier
between girls and boys this fluid line
of same gender communication facilitates
a greater opening for interpersonal
exploration at an earlier age this
changes the way queer people approach
sex this leads to a general Comfort
towards sexuality in queer circles and
also why it's troubling to see sex
negative sentiments arising from inside
the community even if a queer person is
a late bloomer so to speak they are
conditioned by a communal culture that
was shaped by early bloomers and thus
tend to slip into the way of thinking
regardless and it's also why the same
jokes about the sex lives of gay men do
not apply to gay women and vice versa
the result is a set of sexual
expectations that are almost completely
inverted from heteronormative
expectations for instance second base
for straight people is apparently cop in
a feel over clothing second base for gay
men is according to patterns is anal
penetration weirdly gay bases are
reversed from the straight ones the Home
Run system is a gauge used to measure
physical intimacy and commitment where
straight people tend interview sex as a
reward for enduring a slow escalation of
physicality gay people start with oral
on base one and eventually come around
to home base which is holding hands in
public and it's highly coveted gay men
only want one thing and it's disgusting
while second base for lesbians is
reportedly a U-Haul now there's nothing
wrong with depicting gay people not
having sex if we want our queerness
defined based on internal merits rather
than owing public Val validation to
having someone's hand to hold then this
is Paramount subsequently Arrow Ace
isn't the only expression of asexuality
you can be gay and Ace at the same time
developing sexuality doesn't mean that
we need to see the characters doing it
but people in the heat of budding
sexuality are bound to experiment a bit
it would be something that they would
talk about like confirmation through
dialogue it doesn't have to follow
Elite's footsteps but just like being
gay or trans not everyone who
self-identifies as asexual now always
knew that about
themselves sex is like broccoli to know
you don't like broccoli you first kind
of have to eat broccoli there's even a
chemical in broccoli that you can only
taste if you have a very specific active
Gene those who have it find broccoli to
be rancid they physiologically cannot
enjoy this vegetable for everyone else
it's great it's
good it's fine given society's push to
present sex as pleasurable many start by
trying it out and then spend maybe even
years trying to figure out why it's not
working for them keep in mind that a
sexual doesn't always mean no sex drive
Ace like everything else in sexuality is
not only a spectrum but a matrix this is
pertinent as heartstopper author Alice
Osan self-identifies as asexual themsel
which likely means that as per the
Stanley rule of write the stuff you wish
you could read they want romantic drama
that isn't just focused around sex and
that should be that it should be
abundantly okay for this kind of media
to exist just as it should be abundantly
okay for young Royals and Elite to exist
there is a compelling case for queer
media to portray the more innocent
aspects of life stories of friendship
Adventure Coming of Age familial bonds
and the quotidian Joys and struggles
that make up the human experience these
stories matter because they reinforce
the idea that we queers are not defined
solely by our sexuality by diversifying
the types of stories told within LGBT
media we affirm that queer people lead
Rich complex lives that are worth
depicting in all their facets not just
in relationship to their sexual identity
portraying a range of stories from the
queer perspective also dismantles the
misconception that our narratives are
inherently adult or explicit it
challenges the strawman fallacy that the
presence of queer characters in themes
just makes something inappropriate for
young audiences hopefully creating a
space for even more conservative parents
to let their kids watch this media and
feel a little bit less alone in the
world heartstopper fills this role
perfectly but we also have to accept
that not every queer story should be so
innocent when it comes to drag queens
and gay performers especially those who
tour they encounter an astronomical
number of gay and queer people
especially among other performers they
get to know each other quite well
including stories of their teenage years
and this includes my own discussions
with queer people seriously it's one of
those like wait everyone else was having
sex it seems that in high school for a
lot of gay they took the opportunity to
dive deep into experimentation
heartstopper is a direct contradiction
of what many had either experienced
directly or by proxy and so it feels
like it's trying to develop a
puritanical objective for young gay men
alternately and this is touching on the
handholding part of heartstopper is that
for gays of a certain generation and by
that I mean neither too old nor too
young being confronted by heartstopper
under the assumption that it is meant to
mimic reality is triggering believe me a
lot of gays would have loved to
instantly find a high school boyfriend
with whom they felt comfortable enough
to explore emotional intimacy and hold
hands the gay home run as it were
however this generation who are in their
late 20s and early 40s now my generation
may have very well wanted this
experience but we came of age when being
out and gay as a teenager wasn't trendy
if you don't mind my flippancy for
myself and others we were the only out
gay in school and so seeing something
like heartstopper may feel like a
culture is telling us that we were doing
it wrong alternately for those who
didn't even know that they were gay as a
teenager let alone come out heartstopper
is a reminder of what could have been
again again again this is a community
yes even the CIS gay men who have
undergone complex trauma that we as a
society still do not recognize as trauma
for all that even the staunchest Allies
do to make coming out easier today we
still have to come out in a society
which is grandfathered in a myriad of
cultural attitudes that are incompatible
with queerness which create natural
obstacles for us we exist in an
operating system that is not designed
for us the trauma comes with Society
placing the burden of integration on us
Society does not truly acknowledge this
as trauma because social understanding
of queer trauma is related to bigotry
and not the complex constructed from
watching your straight CIS friends be
able to live out a number of Life
Experiences as they see fit whereas the
queer individual having been raised
under the assumption that they are
straight Andor Cy must make concessions
and compromises based on how soon or
late they shift into their queerness
combined with media that dict Ates queer
experiences there are going to be across
theboard feelings of I lived my life the
wrong way you are dealing with this
group of people when you develop queer
media we're a tough crowd and rest
assured it's not all our fault with the
amount of complex trauma residing in
this group it makes perfect sense that a
piece of media meant to uplift and
Inspire the
lgbtqia will have the inverse unintended
effect of telling many of these people
that they messed up and that missing out
on all those experiences is their fault
and no you can't go back and fix it like
I came out when I was 12 and I haven't
had an actual boyfriend my whole life
many gay people cope with this by
telling themselves that their teenage
fantasies were simply impossible media
instances that refute this without
explanation may very well feel like
direct personal
criticism for having trauma trauma
trauma trauma generational trauma trauma
trauma this is what trauma looks like
these are the feelings that heartstopper
digs up in some people so it makes
perfect sense why the criticism would be
so focused on presenting sexuality in a
show that is neither focused on it nor
is it required it makes sense perhaps
but it is irrational even though trauma
itself is valid there is an onus on the
individual to respect their own trauma
without pushing it out into the world
but that's just heartstopper what of the
opposite an inability to consume media
that is sexual because it presents those
same Sensations of queer fomo perhaps
this is why some gay people are
uncomfortable with seeing gay sex in
their streaming movies not because
they're squeamish about dicks and butts
but because it's hearkening to a painful
reminder of what they feel like this
movie is telling them they missed out on
and I'm sorry for how polarizing this
video is I know it must seem like I'm
jumping around a lot if I'm not settling
on a clear critical Target it's because
I'm not trying to Target anyone when in
fact I'm trying to defend media's
ability to exist as a Creator's Vision
but also defend why queer people have
such a dodgy relationship with media
featuring queer people nobody's really
in the wrong
here except of course Millennia of
puritanical imperialism and postcolonial
patriarchal values that have resulted in
us feeling like we're overdue for a
little dignity and
autonomy in regards to queer resistance
around media I see two issues the first
being that queer people including gay
men have been so under represented for
so long and Tabo predominantly
represented by depictions that moralize
US based on hedonistic etiquette we feel
an obligation to watch queer media where
we are featured in the hopes that it
will break the representation glass
ceiling this is particularly more true
for wide relase high-profile examples of
queer media this is why Bros Got rave
reviews from mainstream critics while
Fire Island was mostly ignored it's also
a very erratic circumstance of media
criticism where red white and royal blue
was targeted for its sexiness but Bros
upon release was hailed as the Advent of
queer acceptance among mainstream
critics even though it had a lot more
sex among a lot more people and was not
nearly as good we're shooting ourselves
in the foot by following Trends highly
promoted queerness is queerness that has
been bespoke to have as much appeal to
straight audiences as possible think
broke Back Mountain would that have been
as successful had it not started two
heart throbs that women wet their
panties over and who simultaneously came
across as Butch enough for straight guys
to feel comfortable with the problem in
practice is that this obligation
implores us to watch media we simply may
not be interested in either outside of
our preferred genres or featuring
casting that we don't like or something
which may contain triggering elements
that we don't even know our trigger
simply because we don't consider
existing in a society that does not
accommodate our identities as cptsd
trauma the second issue is as per an
unawareness of said complex trauma we
are unable to compartmentalize a
negative reaction to Media as a trauma
response in which case we try to
intellectualize by interpreting this
media as making a normative argument
about all of gay people so like to quote
an incredibly problematic white man dude
sometimes a cigar is just a cigar Heart
Stopper is just trying to be
heartstopper not every artist or author
is out there trying to make a fictional
Manifesto out to ref C and shape the
world I don't think this is limited
exclusively to queer people but we seem
to take every instance of queer
representation as a Manifesto we treat
these media as if each one is actively
trying to set a universal precedent for
the state of modern queerness sometimes
this is true like with Barbie which was
a movie about Womanhood the interaction
between wom and the idea of woman and
where men may fit into this idea at
which point you are allowed to disagree
with the premises and conclusions of the
movie you're also allowed to disagree
with some finer points and some nitpicky
elements of the conclusion but overall
enjoy the movie or appreciate that it
exists slightly disagree does not need
to mean burn it in a fire this is
probably the clearest problem that
exists within left of spaces today that
is a fallacy of composition it's not
intellectual and it's certainly not sexy
you know who does that the alt-right
Disney made this movie about a strong
female character so the entire company
now has a woke agenda apparently and so
on and so forth the difference being
that those on the right at the very
least generally agree on who to hate
we're letting them divide us we have a
reluctance to let queer media be
fantasies instead as we're starved for
visibility we look at each one as the
media that might make or break our
personal autonomy heartstopper is a
fantasy red white and royal blue is a
fantasy young Royals is a fantasy
because for all that heartstopper may be
seen as an early indicator of a total
failure of queer writes it's certainly
an outlier next to a larger body of work
that includes the affir menion media and
many others heartstopper might be
popular but red white and royal blue is
the most watched Amazon Prime movie in
the history of the service the issue is
not with heartstopper but a fear of
living in a population that leans toward
that as the only acceptable
manifestation of queer expressions of
affection which is not an issue with the
media but rather the way we seem to
expect these instances of representation
to apply to the whole of queerness and
that rather than finding red white and
royal blue wanting for not being able to
present the multitudinous range of
queerness we can observe these pieces of
media as being pieces of a growing whole
which seems to be leaning to Greater
inclusivity as it grows this feels like
a popularity contest where the largest
fandom gets to decide what is and is not
an acceptable expression of queer
specifically gay love and the people who
have the smaller Voice next to a large
fandom of teenage girls are gay people
the fear is rooted in a sensation of not
having control over our own depictions
that are projected to queer people
because it's these fictional examples
that are held up as archetypes for real
people to be compared
to one must acknowledge the historic
invisibility of gay narratives within
the mainstream media landscape the
journey from non-existence to the
peripheries and at long last to have
media with as diverse portrayals as
heartstopper young Royals red white and
royal blue not to mention more adult
focused media has been a copian task for
the gay community this traversal has
been marred by periods of grotesque
caricature and an almost vois Safari ISM
that othered and fetishized gay
relationships casting them in a light
that shimmered with Scandal rather than
substance and these types of portrayals
are far from Gone especially in other
parts of the world but that's a
different video sign up for the patreon
to get us there yet as the pendulum
swung towards inclusivity a new critique
arose from the old prejudices the claim
that gay media is too sexualized
concealing the age-old detraction of the
gays themselves are too sexual in some
sense this reflects a societal
discomfort with the candid portrayal of
homosexual Love and Desire it is as if
the very Act of two men or two women
expressing their sexuality must be
shrouded in a chased Veil lest the
onlooker be confronted with the
unvarnished truth of affection and maybe
even have to rethink their own inner
feelings moreover this assessment often
stems from a myopic view of gay media
taking as its evidence a narrow
selection of works that are
intentionally provocative or which
challenge societal Norms around sex and
sexuality to paint the entire of gay
media with such a broad brush is to
ignore the rich tapestry of stories that
span the spectrum of experience from the
platonic and the familial to the
romantic and yes even the sexual to deny
the sexual component of gay
relationships in media is to deny a
fundamental aspect of human connection
regardless of orientation sexuality
after all is a potent element of The
Human Condition and its representation
in art and storytelling has long been a
conduit for deeper understanding a
mirror reflecting the complexities of
love lust and longing heteronormative
narratives have long enjoyed the
privileged of unabashed sexual
expression without inviting the same
level of scrutiny in contrast gay media
often faces a double-edged sword a
clamoring for representation on one hand
and a prudish recoil at the
manifestation of that representation on
the other there exists an unspoken rule
it seems that gay characters must not
only be present but must also comport
themselves in a manner palatable to the
heterosexual majority their sexuality
expressed with a modesty that is seldom
demanded of The Straits is it not then a
form of cultural suppression to dictate
the terms of representation to confine
the narratives of a community to the
narrow confines of what is deemed
acceptable by those who wield the
loudest voices gay media in its Essence
is a rebellion against such constraints
a declaration that love in its Myriad
forms will no longer be relegated to the
Shadows perhaps there are naturally
going to be various push back
consequences when dealing with a large
group of people who have been jerked
around let on and outright lied to for
decades knowing our history can
establish a context for why we Face the
struggles we do but also offer us
insight into what methods work to create
change and what methods don't spoiler
alert for gay rights being loud
obnoxious and altogether ungrateful and
shoving our sexuality in people's faces
has tended to be a more successful route
than working within the system and
making friends for marriage equality we
stopped asking politicians to help us
and started demanding equality by hiring
High Price Lawyers and taking people
States and whole countries to court for
being gay in the military we tried it
the nice way and we got don't ask don't
tell so then we started marching and had
our gay millionaires threatened to stop
donating to democratic politicians if
they didn't repeal the thing and when it
came to AIDS we did absolutely
everything that every privileged person
says you're not supposed to do if you
want people to like you because asking
politely got us ignored even those of us
who knew Ronald Reagan but I digress the
Hallmark of an oppressor is to divorce a
community from its own history it makes
it easier for controlling powers to
dictate what that history was or simply
lie about a political body's involvement
in systemic institutional and social
discrimination the diversity of
relationships and experiences within the
lgbtq community should be shown not all
gay men have the same experiences nor do
all lesbians bisexual people trans
people or queer people in general and
let's not forget the representation of
asexuals and A- Romantics who are often
completely overlooked in media the
inclusion of diverse relationships and
sexual Dynamics is important whether it
be runchy sex in a bath house or holding
your high school boyfriend's hand
visibility in all forms of media
including media directed at younger
people like heartstopper is incredibly
important there's a growing resistance
to including queer characters in movies
shows and books directed at a ya or
younger
audience based on the misconception that
their presence inherently involves adult
themes however children's media is an
ideal space to introduce the concept of
diverse families and friend friendships
teaching acceptance and understanding at
a young age
finally we must recognize the queer
representation is not the end goal but
part of a broader movement towards
inclusion and equality it's a means for
storytelling that reflects the world as
it is in all its diversity and at its
best it can influence perceptions and
Foster
empathy it's not just about seeing
oneself on the screen it's about
everyone seeing the multifaceted world
World We Share learning from it and
finding the universal human experiences
that connect us all your experiences are
not erased because Charlie and Nick can
hold hands your trauma is not invalid
because Society doesn't recognize it you
don't have to live up to the fairy tale
that Alex and Henry's story is told in
no matter what you feel there is no
wrong way to be queer there are no rules
saying if you didn't meet your boyfriend
in high school then you did things wrong
you didn't miss out on your
story maybe you're just starting
it and no matter what anyone
says your story has a place in this
world so don't let anyone stop you from
telling it this video was brought to you
by our amazing patrons like the ones you
see on screen right now if you'd like to
help us keep making queer content on
YouTube you can sign up for our patreon
at the link in the description thanks
for watching putting away my
pride I don't care who's wrong or right
oh you going me so maged and I love it
you bring all my to light I used to be J
testing my patience some people who
walked in and out of my life but you is
so different this time I'm all thoughts
of the future of you
crystalized now you breaking down my
walls I've never found love with no ego
you stitching up my
scars forever since the start yeah you
[Music]
no break down
myall I Found Love
know
[Music]
you
break down my
walls I've never found love with no e
you stitching up my
[Music]
scars
just the start yeah you no ego no no no
no no no no no no no no no no no no now
you're breaking down my
walls
[Music]
never
it
n